---
layout: post
title: Programming 101
---

Hi there,


It has been three weeks since I started Le Wagon, a Paris-based developer bootcamp. This full-time program lasts nine weeks. It aims to teach code newbies how to build the prototype of a modern web application. As only a third of the program is behind me, it’s hard to predict what we will be able to achieve by the end of it. All I can say with confidence is that I like it a lot sofar. Coding is fun (really) and not as hard as I dreaded. It had been years since I did not have the feeling to dive into a completely new field and build something all by myself - you heard me well, build not sell.


Combining a hands-on approach, with few theorical lessons, and personal mentoring seems to be the perfect combo to learn fast and well how to code. Before the beginning of the program, I had completed several online tutorials and read a book on the subject. This was somehow useful but I had no idea how the things I learned fit into the big picture (a working web application). I did not get any personal feedback on the basic code I wrote and sitting alone for days in front of my laptop was frustrating. Being part of a group and receiving feedbacks of experienced developpers is invaluable. As knowledge is all over the web, especially tech-related content, finding good courses is quite easy. Learning best practices and staying motivated over the time is much harder.


Finally, Ruby seems to be a fairly good language to start programming. Reading it sounds like regular English. Writing it is less painful than the vast majority of other languages (forget about semi-colons, weird signs, etc.). Also, using Rails and other Ruby libraries truly seems magic.


-- Olivier